One conclusion is that we should not expect success to be evenly or randomly distributed among
individuals, groups, institutions or nations in endeavors with multiple prerequisites—
which is to say, most meaningful endeavors.

When the gain or loss of just one
prerequisite can turn failure into success or turn success into failure, it should not be
surprising, in a changing world, if the leaders and laggards of one century or
millennium exchange places in some later century or millennium.

In short, gross disparities among peoples in their economic outcomes, scientific
discoveries, technological advances and other achievements have inspired efforts at
explanation that span the ideological spectrum.

Conceivably, the lower average IQs of twins might
have originated in the womb but, when one of the twins is stillborn or dies early, the
surviving twin averages an IQ closer to that of people born singly.

People from different social backgrounds may also have different goals and priorities

The fact that Jews rose dramatically in certain fields
after various barriers were removed does not mean that other groups would do the same
if barriers against them were removed, for the Jews already had various other
prerequisites for such achievements—notably widespread literacy during centuries
when illiteracy was the norm in the world at large

Eastman Kodak, which had produced the world’s first electronic image sensor,
48 was undone by its own invention, which other companies developed to higher levels in
digital cameras.

The fact that Northern Europe and Western
Europe would move ahead of Southern Europe economically and technologically many
centuries later was a heartening sign that backwardness in a given era does not mean
backwardness forever.

Getting rid of capitalist “exploiters” in Communist countries did not raise the living standards of workers, even to levels common in many capitalist countries

Are group disparities in outcomes a result
of internal differences in behavior and capabilities, accurately assessed by outsiders, or are those disparities due to external impositions based on the biased misjudgments or
antagonisms of outsiders?

Discrimination 1:

ability to tell differences in the qualities of people and things, and choosing
accordingly

Discrimination 2:

treating people negatively, based on arbitrary assumptions or aversions concerning individuals of a particular race or sex,

Discrimination 1:

Ideally, treating people as individual

- a professor entering a classroom on the first day of the academic year may judge and
  treat each student as an individual. But that same professor, walking down a lonely
  street at night, may not judge and react to each stranger on the road ahead as an
  individual.

U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has sued employers who do criminal
background checks on job applicants

An equally qualified individual may do the work just as well as
others, but if some of the others are distracted from their work, the net effect can be a
less efficient workforce.

inner cities, easier to lump non criminals with criminals because doing individual test to determine that is expensive.

Result: a law-abiding majority in a highcrime neighborhood can end up paying a high price for the presence of a criminal
minority living in their midst.

Businesses in general, whether making decisions in a labor market or a product
market, are not like professors voting at a faculty meeting, because those votes seldom
have any costs for the professors themselves,

While racists, by definition, prefer their own race to other races, individual racists, like other people, tend to prefer themselves most of all.

In short, racially segregated seating in municipal transit vehicles was seen, by those
who owned or managed such companies, as something that reduced profits. Not
surprisingly, municipal transit companies in the South fought against the passage of
laws requiring racially segregated seating in buses and trolleys.

Railroads had to buy more coaches (cost) to enforce segregation, trains became heavier, so need more fuel

Unfortunately, when minimum wage laws reduce the employment prospects of
inexperienced and unskilled black teenagers, that reduces their labor force participation,
and therefore reduces their rate of acquisition of work experience and job skills.
Whatever the degree of racism, it cannot explain age differences in employment among
young black males, who do not change race as they grow older.

But, like the organized white efforts to suppress black earnings in the postbellum South, the mere presence of such organized efforts was no evidence or proof that they achieved their goal.

On the contrary, such restrictions on new building increased the market value of the existing homes of residents in those communities and permitted higher rents to be charged by landlords in a market with severe housing shortages.

As a result, black-white residential separations have been seen and treated as if they
were unique, as well as being inconsistent with prevailing background assumptions of
equal or random outcomes in the absence of discriminatory impositions.

As with other racial or ethnic groups, in other times and places, blacks in these
Northern communities feared that the arrival of less assimilated members of their own
race would provoke negative reactions

The correlation between the IQs of husbands and wives is at least as high as the
correlation between the IQs of brothers and sisters

free persons of color were seen as dangers in south, since they demonstrated that slavery wasn't inevitable fate, and they could help slaves run away

self-sorting vs third-party sorting

The assumption behind such programs has been that social isolation was behind many social pathologies in the ghettos, so that ending that isolation would lead to
improvements in the behavior and performances of minority adults and children.

living in better neighborhoods have not produced benefits to newcomers from poor areas

One major difference between people sorting or unsorting themselves, on the one
hand, and government officials sorting or unsorting them, on the other hand, is that
people who sort or unsort themselves receive both the benefits and the costs of doing
so. But government officials receive neither the benefits nor the costs of unsorting other
people

Employers therefore have incentives to locate their businesses away from
concentrations of minority populations, so that they will not be as legally vulnerable to
costly charges of discrimination if their work force does not end up with the same
demographic makeup as that of the surrounding population.

Northern white employers sent recruiters into the South during the Jim Crow era to
recruit black workers,

There are not only different numbers of people per household at different income
levels, there are also different numbers of people per household from one ethnic group
to another, and different numbers of people per household from one time period to
another.

A University of Michigan study that followed a given set of working Americans
from 1975 to 1991 found that 95 percent of the people initially in the bottom 20 percent
were no longer there at the end of that period.

Yet again, specific facts have been defeated by the implicit presumption that groups
tend to be similar in what they do, so that large differences in outcomes are treated as
surprising, if not sinister.

Younger people are more prone to speeding, and groups with a younger median age
have a higher proportion of their population in age brackets where speeding is more
common.

Different groups differ by median age, no reason to expect the same proportion of their respective populations speeding, or to have the same outcomes.

Treating the incomes earned by some individuals over various numbers of years as being the same as incomes earned by other individuals in just one year is like failing to
distinguish apples from oranges.

Capital gains in general are recorded in income statistics as being the same as an
annual salary, when clearly they are not

Internal Revenue Service data show that half the people who
earned over a million dollars a year, at some time during the years from 1999 and 2007,
did so just once in those nine years.

That is, what people do reveals what their values are, better than what they say.

If workers in fact stayed on permanently in such jobs, which usually have no
automatic promotions ladder, those workers would in fact be in dead-end jobs. But,
when the average tenure of supermarket employees has been found to be 97 days, that is
clearly not the case.

Most modern nations have had minimum wage laws, but the few that have not have tended to have strikingly
lower unemployment rates.

All that the government can do in reality is change the tax rate

Disparities do not imply discrimination. Nor is discrimination
automatically excluded. It is one of many possibilities, each of which has to establish its claims with evidence, rather than being an automatic presumption

Morally neutral factors: crop failures, birth order, geographic settings,
technological advances, or demographic and cultural differences

Providing behavior affecting incentives
What are you sacrificing?

Government: illegal or legal, eligible or ineligible
our society is incremental, giving up X for Y.

What this meant, both in New York and Chicago, was that those blacks who were
most acculturated to the social norms of the larger society led the expansion of the black community into adjoining white communities.

Such a combination of political success, along with
economic and social disaster, can be found in a number of American cities where one
political party has stayed in power for decades through redistributionist policies

This is just one of many ways in which the agendas of the present distort our
understanding of the past, forfeiting valuable lessons that a knowledge of the past could
teach

The past must be understood in its own context. It cannot be seen as if its context
were just like the context of the present, but with events simply taking place in an
earlier time

What can it mean for A to apologize for
what B did, even among contemporaries, much less across the vast chasm between the
living and the dead? Pretending to have powers that we do not, in
fact, have risks creating needless evils in the present while claiming to deal with the
evils of the past.
